# Welcome to Designing for Documentation & Assessment

While making has many benefits for students, one of the greatest challenges of implementing making in K–12 schools is the question of how to assess collaborative, cross-disciplinary, and iterative making practices and outcomes. Many existing assessment tools for maker-centered classrooms focus on a final project or portfolio. The Beyond Rubrics toolkit is our first attempt at capturing qualitative and quantitative evidence during the process of making.

Beyond Rubrics toolkit was created by the MIT Playful Journey Lab and Maker Ed, in collaboration with educators at [Community Public Charter School](https://www.k12albemarle.org/school/cpcs/Pages/default.aspx){:target="_blank"} in Charlottesville, Virginia and [Corte Madera School](http://cms.pvsd.net/){:target="_blank"} in Portola Valley, California. To download the customizable tools, as well as teachers guides for each tool, visit the [Beyond Rubrics Toolkit site](http://www.makered.org/beyondrubrics){:target="_blank"}.

***

### How to Use This Guide
In this guide, you’ll find a series of activities we have developed with tips on implementing them yourself. The guide is divided into five sections, which you can see in the top navigation bar:
 - **Introduction**: This section introduces the guide and the Beyond Rubrics Design Principles that frame how the Beyond Rubrics team thinks about assessment in maker-centered classrooms.
 - **Setting Context**: Educators and learners to build a common understanding of the learning constructs, fully participate together in the assessment process, and collect rich evidence that supports teaching and learning. In this section you'll try an activity to define your learning constructs and build a collective understanding among educators and learners in your classroom or program.
 - **Evidence Collection**: In this section, you will have the opportunity to try some of the tools to collect diverse evidence of learning in your classroom or makerspace and try your hand at designing an evidence collection tool.
 - **Interpretation & Communication**: Now that you've collected evidence of learning, you'll want to use the evidence to make claims about student learning. In this section, we'll share some of our prototypes for making meaning from the evidence.
 - **Next Steps**: This section prompts you with next steps you might take in your assessment journey including links to several other resources and projects you can explore.

For each section of this guide you will find two activities to help you implement, adapt, and remix the Beyond Rubrics Toolkit. These will appear in the left navigation bar:
  - **Try the Toolkit (TTT)**: These activities will help you implement and reflect on the existing tools in the Beyond Rubrics Toolkit.
  - **Design Your Own (DYO)**: These activities will help you use the Beyond Rubrics design principles to adapt and remix the tools for your own context.

The activities come from conference sessions and workshops we have led with educators to introduce them to the toolkit. Each activity will take 1-2 hours to complete, and can be done with a small group of 3-5 educators in your program or department, or may be facilitated with a larger group of colleagues.
It may be helpful to have a particular project or unit into which you can incorporate the Beyond Rubrics tools. For instance, maybe you’re a 9th grade physics teacher and do a successful balloon launch project each year. This year, consider exploring this learning pathway with colleagues and use it as an opportunity to enhance your documentation and assessment practices. This guide can be completed in any order, but we can recommend two paths:

### Implementing the Beyond Rubrics Toolkit
This path will get you up and running with the Beyond Rubrics toolkit. You’ll have the opportunity to try out tools from each of the sections of the tool kit with colleagues in preparation for implementing the tools with students. The activities could be done once per week for a month to allow for time to reflect and implement with students, or you can spend a half day working through all four for a deep dive into the tools.
For the Physics teacher implementing the balloon launch project, this might mean you already have clear maker mindsets and you want to document and assess, but want to collect better evidence of these mindsets and skills along the way.
To complete this guide using the Implementing the Beyond Rubrics Toolkit pathway, complete the sections in this order:
1. Beyond Rubrics Design Principles
2. Try the Toolkit: Superpower Hour
3. Try the Toolkit: Design a Monument
4. Meaning Making: Learning From Student Work Protocol

### Designing for Documentation and Assessment
This path is for educators who are interested in taking a deeper dive into designing documentation and assessment systems in their makerspace or classroom. The additional “Design Your Own” activities give you the opportunity to put the Beyond Rubrics Design Principles into practice. You’ll spend time defining your own constructs and participate in a rapid design session to support remixing or redesigning evidence collection tools. The activities should be completed over the course of several weeks (or a full semester) so that you have the opportunity to engage in design and implementation between sessions.
For the Physics teacher implementing the balloon launch project, you may already have clear assessment practices for the content goals but you are interested in expanding your learning goals to include mindsets and skills such as collaboration or troubleshooting.
To complete this guide using the Implementing the Beyond Rubrics Toolkit pathway, complete the sections in this order:
1. Beyond Rubrics Design Principles
2. Try the Toolkit: Superpower Hour
3. Design Your Own: Defining Constructs
4. Try the Toolkit: Design a Monument
5. Design Your Own: Activity & Data Collection Tool Rapid Design
6. Meaning Making: Learning From Student Work Protocol

***

### Additional Resources:
While this guide will help you get up and running with the Beyond Rubrics tools and principles, it is not a comprehensive introduction to making as pedagogy, assessment and Evidence Centered Design, or as comprehensive as what we hope to have one day after we’ve learned more and had a more sustained co-design process with a classroom. We encourage you to explore these additional resources for more ideas.
If you are just getting started on your maker education journey, there are a number of great resources from our friends and partners for thinking more deeply about the goals and practices in your community.
- MakerEd’s website features a wide range of curated resources for schools and institutions on their [Getting Started](https://makered.org/resources/getting-started/){:target="_blank"} page. You might start by exploring the "why" and "how" with the [Visioning Tool](https://makered.org/resources/getting-started-visioning/){:target="_blank"}.
- Informal education institutions are encouraged to check out the [Making & Learning](http://p2pu.github.io/makingandlearning/){:target="_blank"} open online course from IMLS & the Children’s Museum of Pittsburgh.
- Many of the principles in this guide are based on those of Evidence Centered Design, which you can read more about in this [Introduction to Evidence Centered Design](https://circlcenter.org/evidence-centered-design/){:target="_blank"} from the Center for Innovative Research in Cyberlearning.
